# Openssl helper scripts

This directory contains `openssl` helper scripts which show how to generate a root Certificate
Authority (CA) certificate and rootCA signed certificates for `trustydns-server` and
`trustydns-proxy`. With such certificates you can create a DoH network in which only authorizedd
proxies and servers can exchange DoH queries with each other. An alternative of course is to use
firewall rules and ip filtering to achieve your access control goals but that's not very flexible
and is hard to keep current if you run the proxy on mobile devices.

These scripts are simplistic and are only offered as a guide. You will need to use something far
more robust and secure than these helpers when setting up a production environment.

### Review site.conf and the make_* scripts

`site.conf` is the openssl configuration file used by all the helper scripts. You may want to review
and edit it for your environment. Be careful - it is an arcane file. You may also wish to review the
helper scripts as they have various hard-coded values such as key sizes, key lifetime, email
addresses and default domains.


### Generating the root CA

The first step is to generate the root CA files from which all other certificates are created:

```sh
./make_rootca_cert

```

This creates `rootCA.cert` and `rootCA.key` in PEM format (it also happens to create a few other
"database" files in the current directory). The `rootCA.cert` file is distributed across your
deployment as it needs to be supplied to both the proxy and server via this command-line snippet:
`--tls-other-roots rootCAcert.pem`. The `rootCA.key` file should be well protected.


### Generating server certificates

Server certificates are encoded with a domain name so clients can verify the URL domain name against
the certificate domain name. Thus `make_server_cert` is invoked with domain names on the command
line. These domain names form the DoH URLs used by the proxy and server.


```sh
./make_server_cert rootCA.cert rootCA.key mydoh1.example.net mydoh2.example.net
```

You will of course need a unique server certificate for each DoH server you wish to run. A unique
pair of cert/key files are generated for each domain name by this script.

These key and certificate files are supplied to the server with the `--tls-key` and `--tls-cert`
options respectively.


### Creating proxy certificates

Unlike server certificates, proxy certificates do not have any uniquely identifying attributes such
as domain names. Instead `trustydns-server` validates clients by confirming that they have been
generated by the rootCA identified with the `--tls-other-roots` option. If not, the connection is
rejected.

```sh
./make_proxy_cert rootCA.cert rootCA.key
```

Creates `proxy.key` and `proxy.cert` files in PEM format. While these files can be shared amongst
proxy deployments, it's not a good idea to do so as that makes future revocation pretty inconvenient.

The generated key and certificate files are supplied to the proxy with the `--tls-key` and
`--tls-cert` options respectively. Both daemons will also need `--tls-other-roots` set to identify
the rootCA certificate. You should also have `--log-tls-errors` set when first testing private
certificates as the failure modes are mostly closed connections and timeouts.
